---
date: 2014-04-23
authors: [dkulik]
description: >
  Changes from 2009 until 2014
---


!!! info "23 April 2014"
    GEM-Selektor version 3.2.3 (rev. 2554.952) code package becomes available for downloading from the GEM-Selektor web page. This is a bugfix release built with the Qt version 5.2.1 (runs also on Mac OS X 10.9).

!!! info "14 March 2014"
    GEM-Selektor version 3.2.2 (rev. 2530.930) code package becomes available for downloading from the GEM-Selektor web page. This is a bugfix release built with the Qt version 5.2.1 (runs also on Mac OS X 10.9). To take advantage of the improved GraphicsDialog, the plots in old projects (created with GEM-Selektor 3 before rev. 2370) need to be customized once and saved in the respective Process, GtDemo or RTparm database records.

!!! info "06 November 2013"
    GEM-Selektor version 3.2.1 (rev. 2482.890) code package becomes available for downloading from the GEM-Selektor web page. There were minor corrections in the updated PSI-Nagra 12/07 default thermodynamic database. A small but useful Phase Information wizard was added to help the user better navigate between Dependent Components and Phases in pages displaying the setup of chemical system. Changes also include several bugfixes, help pages database extensions, and executable files built using Qt version 5.1.1. To take advantage of the improved GraphicsDialog, the plots in old projects (created before release of GEMS 3.2 rev. 2370) need to be customized once.

!!! info "30 April 2013"
    GEM-Selektor version 3.2.0 (rev. 2370.830) code package becomes available for downloading from the GEM-Selektor web page. The default Nagra-PSI thermodynamic database is replaced with the updated PSI-Nagra 12/07 thermodynamic database. The old GraphicsDialog is replaced with new GraphicsDialog that uses the Qwt library and is capable of producing good-quality plots with several absicssas, which can be saved into files both in bitmap (.png, .jpg, ...) and vector (.svg, .pdf, .ps) formats. Latest changes also include bugfixes, further extended help pages database, and executable files built using Qt version 5. To take advantage of the improved GraphicsDialog, the plots in old projects will need once to be customized.

!!! info "20 December 2012"
    GEM-Selektor version 3.1 (GEMS3.1) rev. 2292.780 code package is available for downloading from the GEM-Selektor web page. Latest changes include numerous bugfixes, much improved and extended help pages database, and refurbished Elements Wizard with a new dialog that lets the user to select built-in thermodynamic database(s), subdatabase(s), and independent components to be used in creating or expanding modeling projects. This was done in preparation for the forthcoming release of updated built-in PSI-Nagra chemical thermodynamic database.

!!! info "30 September 2012"
    GEM-Selektor version 3.0 (GEMS3.0) is here!. After 3 years of intensive development and testing, the GEMS3 code is ready for web distribution (for Windows XP/7/8; Mac OS X; and Linux desktop PC paltforms). Major new features of GEMS3 include: the efficient and robust GEMS3K numerical kernel with excellent mass balance precision, the same as in the standalone GEMS3K code; the TSolMod class library with >20 non-ideal mixing phase models;  the multi-document-frame GUI based on Qt4.8 toolkit; new Remake wizards and System Recipe wizard; versatile Qt4-based Help system with full search functionality and revised contents including the Tutorial; the enhanced Graph Dialog; many efficiency improvements and bugfixes. Please, check the GEM-Selektor web page for details and downloads.

!!! info "24 October 2011"
    UPGRADE TO VERSION 3.0 in preparation. After a 2-years period of intensive development and testing within the internal GEMS Wiki community, the GEMS3 code becomes mature enough for web distribution (for Windows XP/7; Mac OS X; and KDE-based Linux paltforms). Major new features of GEMS3 include: the efficient and robust GEMS3K numerical kernel with excellent mass balance precision, the same as in the standalone GEMS3K code; the TSolMod class library of >20 multicomponent phase models;  the GUI based on Qt4.7; new Remake wizards and System Recipe wizard; versatile Qt4-based Help window with full search functionality; the revised run-time context-sensitive help database including the Tutorial; the enhanced Graph Dialog; many small efficiency improvements and bugfixes. Please, see the Status Page for details, and check the main GEMS web page for the launch date.

!!! info "05 November 2009"
    BUGFIXED INTERIM RELEASE (build 1453) of GEMS-PSI  version 2.3.1 rc9  for download for Win32 XP/Vista. Please see bugfix_log file for details. Installers for Linuxes and MacOS X coming soon!

!!! info "28 August 2009"
    INTERIM RELEASE of GEMS-PSI  version 2.3.1 rc9 is now available for download for Win32 XP/Vista. This release contains numerous improvements in the GEM IPM2 solver, and will be the last one before a major upgrade to version 3 based on Qt4 GUI. Currently, GEMS version 3 is under extensive testing. We hope to release it as beta-version as soon as it will be fully functional.

!!! info "09 February 2009"
    INTERIM RELEASE of GEMS-PSI  version 2.3.0 rc8 is now available for download for Win32 XP/Vista; Linux 32/64 rpm, Linux32 deb, and Intel Mac OS X 10.5 platforms. In  this version of GEM-Selektor, a number of mixing models for condensed phases was added, in particular, Pitzer (HMW) model for aqueous activity coefficients. Treatment of metastability constraints for reproducing mineral dissolution/precipitation kinetics has been improved. Error diagnostics in the GEM IPM kernel has been made more thorough and strict to provide more information. Smart initial approximation mode was implemented to accelerate calculations.