---
date: 2020-12-07
authors: [dkulik]
description: >
  Changes from 2015 until 2020
---

!!! info "07 December 2020"
    GEM-Selektor version 3.8.0 (rev. 50e150b5.2888e2a) code package is now available for downloading from the GEM-Selektor web page. This release contains important bugfixes, including one in the GEM2MT calculations and another in the implementation of automatic compression of interaction parameters table in sublattice (multi-site) Berman and CEF solid solution models upon removal of some end members. The plot in the GraphDialog can now be copied on right-mouse click as image to clipboard or saved into an image file. The look and feel on high-resolution monitors up to 4k was improved, especially in Windows. Attention!  Starting from v.3.8.0, we distribute online installers for Windows and MacOS that are built in Qt Installer Framework. These installers automatically download and install GEM-Selektor and optionally GEMS3K and (coming soon) GEMSFITS codes. In Windows10, the code packages by default install into the user folder (C:\Users\<you>\GEMS3) in order to avoid problems for non-admin users; the user's modelling projects are now located in the user folder (C:\Users\<you>\Library\Gems3\projects\) as well. In MacOS, default locations of the program (/Users/<you>/GEMS3/Gems3.app) and the users projects (/Users/<you>/GEMS3/Library/Gems3/projects/) are now similar to those in Windows10. This location is safe to persist even after the GEMS codes will be upgraded or completely removed using C:\Users\<you>\GEMS3\MaintenanceTool.exe (in MacOS: /Users/<you>/GEMS3/maintenancetool.app). We highly recommend to upgrade your GEM-Selektor installation to this version (previous installations will not be affected).

!!! info "25 March 2020"
    GEM-Selektor version 3.7.0 (rev. 50e150b5.2888e2a) code package is now available for downloading from the GEM-Selektor web page. This release contains a significant improvement of GEMS3K numerical stability and faster convergence (the Pa_DK tolerance needs to be set 0.5 to 1 orders higher than before, e.g. to 1e-5 instead of 1e-6). Another improvement is the implementation of automatic compression of interaction parameters table in sublattice (multi-site) Berman and CEF solid solution models upon removal of some end members due to narrower list of Independent Components in modelling project or in the system. There were also improvements in documentation and wizard scripts for 'R' - type processes (SFTR- Single Flow-Through Reactor) mode. We highly recommend to upgrade your GEM-Selektor installation to this version.

!!! info "29 October 2019"
    GEM-Selektor version 3.6.0 (rev. b17fbf5.7940cbb) code package is now available for downloading from the GEM-Selektor web page. Starting from this release, the source code of GEM-Selektor GUI part is distributed under the GPL v.3 license because of replacing the graphics dialog module with its implementation based on QtCharts. The GEMS3K numerical code part is distributed under the LGPL v.3 license, as before. This release also contains some relevant bugfixes in the GEM2MT module (random-walk algorithm) and in the calculation of CEF sublattice solid solution models. The default database now contains some thermodynamic data and phase definitions for the ClaySor sorption models for illite and montmorillonite, described in detail in NAB 18-027 (2019) report.

!!! info "19 May 2019"
    GEM-Selektor version 3.5.0 (rev. 80423ef.707e5ad) code package is now available for downloading from the GEM-Selektor web page. This is a moderate improvement release, featuring simple reactive transport simulation tools (GEM2MT module, Process simulations in R mode) in a revised, much better documented and ready to use shape. Explore the respective wizards to create in minutes some stepwise flow-through reactor leaching or flushing simulations (Process R mode), then switch to GEM2MT module with a sequential reactor chain (S mode), box-flux chain (F mode) and generic box-flux scheme with internal sources/sinks (B mode), as well as 1-D advection-dispersion (A mode) or advection-diffusion (W mode) models. All these modes are well suited for studying water-rock (or water-cement) interactions at different levels of complexity. This release also contains bugfixes in GEMS3K and GEM-Selektor improving the runtime performance.

!!! info "07 January 2019"
    GEM-Selektor version 3.4.5 (rev. dcffc63.39b782e) code package is now available for downloading from the GEM-Selektor web page. This is a bugfix release, fixing issues with the reciprocal terms used in addition to Berman sublattice solid solution model, and with the new conveniences in the GraphDialog (added tooltips and "what's this").

!!! info "14 December 2018"
    GEM-Selektor version 3.4.4 (rev. 0c19d8d.4abd759) code package is now available for downloading from the GEM-Selektor web page. This bugfix release is also the first truly 64 bit version for Windows, built with the Qt  5.12 toolkit and MinGW73_64 compiler suite. It runs on Windows7, 8, 10; Macos 10.12 - 10.14; on (k)ubuntu linux 16.04, 18.04). Improvements include highlighting plot curves and symbols in the Graphics Dialog by clicking on their legend names. This can save a lot of time when there are many plots and one needs to identify them quickly.

!!! info "21 November 2018"
    GEM-Selektor version 3.4.3 (rev. 597a65a.4abd759) code package is now available for downloading from the GEM-Selektor web page. This is a bugfix release built with the Qt  5.11.2 toolkit (runs on Windows7, 8, 10; on Mac OS X 10.11 - 10.14; on (k)ubuntu linux 16.04, 18.04). Many bugfixes done; added help and documentation about CEF and MBW sublattice solid solution models implementations. The GEM-Selektor code v.3.4.3 can also be cloned from its public Git repository here and built as described in the Overview there (this could make sense for users of linux other than (k)ubuntu).The corresponding open-source standalone GEMS3K code v.3.4.3 can also be cloned from its public git repository here. 

!!! info "24 July 2018"
    GEM-Selektor version 3.4.2 (rev. aee0d15.a86951d) code package is now available for downloading from the GEM-Selektor web page. This is a bugfix release built with the Qt  5.11 toolkit (runs on Windows7, 8, 10; on Mac OS X 10.11 - 10.13; on (k)ubuntu linux 16.04, 18.04). Many bugfixes done, improvements include ClaySor sorption model and Vinograd MBW solid solution model implementations.

!!! info "07 April 2017"
    GEM-Selektor version 3.3.5 (rev. ee754fe.a73e674) code package is now available for downloading from the GEM-Selektor web page. This is a bugfix release built with the Qt  5.7 (runs on Windows7, 8, 10; on Mac OS X 10.11, 10.12; on (k)ubuntu linux 16.04). Bugfixes and improvements include more robust kinetics simulations and (fixed) 1-D reactive transport (advection-dispersion) simulations with finite-differences method. The corresponding GEMS3K code v.3.3.5 (rev. a73e674) can be cloned from its Bitbucked git repository, https://bitbucket.org/gems4/gems3k.

!!! info "17 October 2016"
    GEM-Selektor version 3.3.4 (rev. 3cecb08.8df0cc1) code package is now available for downloading from the GEM-Selektor web page. This is a bugfix release built with the Qt  5.7 (runs on Windows 7, 8, 10; on Mac OS X 10.11; on (k)ubuntu linux 16.04). Bugfixes and improvements include memory leaks; refreshed Flowline test project; and corrected output of thermodynamic properties of liquid water and water vapor around saturated water vapor curve at Psat in systems where both aqueous phase and gas phase are present. The corresponding GEMS3K code v.3.3.4 (rev. 8df0cc1) can be cloned from its Bitbucked git repository, https://bitbucket.org/gems4/gems3k.

!!! info "18 January 2016"
    The open-source GEMS3K code under LGPL3 (v.3.3, compatible with GEM-Selektor v.3.3.3) can now be found in a mirror Git repository on Bitbucket, URL:   https://bitbucket.org/gems4/gems3k. Easier to get than ever before!

!!! info "09 December 2015"
    MINES 2015 v.1 is a thermodynamics database prepared for modeling magmatic-hydrothermal ore forming processes by Prof. Alex Gysi (Colorado School of Mines, USA). It is now available for downloading from the MINES TDB web page. Please see also the GEMS Contributors page. A welcomed extension of our geography and coverage of modelling topics, applications and tutorials!

!!! info "13 April 2015"
    The GEM-Selektor version 3.3.3 (rev. 2646.1036) code and database package now becomes available for downloading from the GEM-Selektor web page. This is a next sub-version release built with the Qt version 5.4.1 (runs also on Mac OS X 10.9, 10.10). GEM-Selektor v.3.3.3 was in internal development for over two years; it contains important extensions of the Phase record format and data structure, as well as the Phase remake wizard, made in order to accommodate more flexible mixing models (TSolMod), built-in mineral-water reaction kinetics (TKinMet), and a new implementation of sorption and surface complexation models (TSorpMod; work still in progress). Some test projects were also improved or updated. In the DB.default database, all Phase records were converted into the new extended format, and the default PSI/Nagra thermodynamic database was updated to status 12/07 (see https://www.psi.ch/en/les/software-and-database).

    For backward compatibility, all modelling projects created in GEM-Selektor v.3.2.x or earlier, will open and work normally in GEM-Selektor v.3.3.x; accordingly, GEMS3K I/O files exported from GEM-Selektor v.3.2.x are readable and will work in coupled codes and examples using GEMS3K v.3.3.x. A prerequisite of this is that no Phase record is created or remade in such a project having the "old" record format.

    Immediate extension of old modeling projects in GEM-Selektor v.3.3.x with newly created Phase records, remaking existing Phase records, or via Project remake/extension wizard is possible. Before doing that, the user needs only once to open the project; switch to Database Mode; open the Phase window; and remake one-by-one all Phase records available in the project (saving each record back after remake). This will ensure that new or modified phases with extended structure and functionality will work correctly. Note that if some Phase records remain in the "old" format (i.e. not remade) then this will lead to errors or crashes during calculations of equilibria in systems from this project.

    It is essential that ALL Phase records go once through the Phase remake wizard! Even opening and closing a modeling project once in the GEM-Selektor v.3.3.x will render this project unusable in earlier versions of GEM-Selektor (3.2.x or less). For these reasons, if you have used GEM-Selektor v.3.2.x or earlier, we recommend not to upgrade it, but to install GEM-Selektor v.3.3.x to a new location in your PC, check it, and then copy your old modelling projects into the work project directory of the new version (usually like \MyGEMS33\Library\Gems3\projects).