---
date: 2021-12-23
authors: [dkulik]
description: >
  Changes made in 2021
---

!!! info "23 December 2021"
    GEM-Selektor version 3.9.3 (rev. 65db334.18b094c) code package, built using Qt6.2 LTS, is now available for downloading from the GEM-Selektor web page. This is a bugfix release, also adding more functionality to GEM2MT simulations: now the modification of nodes at a time step in the middle of the simulation works if this modification is coded in the control script. More memory leaks were removed; better handling of math exceptions also implemented. Initial configuration files of GEM-Selektor are now provided in JSON format for better compatibility. The graphics in runtime mode of Process simulations has been improved. Minor fixes are reflected in commit messages in the source code repository. An upgrade to this version of GEM-Selektor surely makes sense.

!!! info "05 November 2021"
    GEM-Selektor version 3.9.2 (rev. 96323c0.8986188) code package, built using Qt6.2 LTS, is now available for downloading from the GEM-Selektor web page. This bugfix release has several important issues fixed. GEM2MT simulations of box-flux 'B' type dynamic reactive transport now run correctly, including mobile groups of solid/liquid phases, various types of first-order fluxes and sinks, etc. The  large definitions of SIT aqueous phase are now automatically compressed upon creation of a new modelling project including the list of interaction parameter comments, and re-compressed when cloning the project into an extended one. Some "yes/no" dialogs were extended into "yes/no/yes-to-all/no-to-all" style. The GtDemo wizard was re-arranged for early selection of records to sample in a way consistent with previously improved ReacDC and Phase wizards. The GEMS3K module was enhanced with much more extensive handling of math exceptions, warnings and error messages. GEMS3K can now read/write files in JSON and exchange data in memory as JSON strings. GEM-Selektor can export GEMS3K files in JSON format and backup/restore all types of database records in JSON files (this is more reliable than old customary text format for backup/restore). Numerous minor fixes and improvements are reflected in source code repository commit messages. In view of all this, an upgrade to this version of GEM-Selektor is highly recommended.

!!! info "17 June 2021"
    GEM-Selektor version 3.9.0 (rev. e7e92e0.8bcdafa) code package is now available for downloading from the GEM-Selektor web page. This version contains many bugfixes and significant changes in the user interface. The comment lines for the SysEq record are now visible and editable completely in both Recipe Dialog and in the main system widget, to encourage users better document their work. The ReacDC wizard and Phase wizard underwent radical changes to become more logical: the selection of chemical species (dependent components) involved into a reaction or a phase occurs now at the beginning of the wizard configuration process, not after it, as before. This also allows to add better consistency checks among various dimensions and modes, which was not possible before (new checks will be added into the next release). In addition, this is the first release using the Qt6.1 framework - a major upgrade from the Qt5 framework maintained during almost 9 years. Help pages were also extended/corrected to a significant extent. The look and feel on high-resolution monitors up to 4k was improved, especially in Windows, even more. The installers, both off-line and on-line, are built using the Qt Installer Framework (QtIFW) version 4. The upgrade to this version is highly recommended.
